---
layout: post
title: "DfW Algorithm – Release Notes"
date: 2025-12-24
categories: blog
---

### 30 December 2025 – [[DfW v1.3, latest]](https://github.com/Bkim-git/DfW-algorithm)

- **(Optional) Ground-Truth Validation**  
  An validation step is executed when ground-truth data are available in the input directory (automatically skipped otherwise).

- **(Optional) DMD Visualization**  
  Mode-wise wave propagation videos derived from DMD can be generated in `.mp4` format to visualize spatial wave patterns, controlled via the `flag_show_DMD` switch.

- **Persistent Runtime Logging**  
  All console outputs produced during execution are saved to a `.log` file for post-run inspection and reproducibility.

### 24 December 2025 – [DfW v1.2]

- **Process-level Parallelization Redesign**  
  The depth inversion workflow has been redesigned for true process-level parallelism, enabling efficient mode-wise and point-wise estimation on multi-core systems via `joblib`. Core routines in `modules` have also been refactored to be stateless , enabling safe parallel execution without side effects or race conditions.

- **Shared-Memory–Based Data Exchange**  
  Intermediate data are exchanged through shared memory with read-only access, reducing memory overhead and inter-process communication while ensuring safe parallel execution.

### 11 July 2025 – [DfW v1.1]

- **Nonlinear wave correction module added** 
  Introduces a dedicated module to account for wave nonlinearity, improving depth inversion accuracy, particularly in shallow water and energetic wave conditions.
  Reference: [Kim et al., 2026](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.coastaleng.2025.104904) 

- **Adaptive interrogation windowing implemented**
  Automatically adjusts the optimal size and shape of the interrogation window with respect to global bottom slope, and local wavelength and direction.  
  Reference: [Kim et al., 2025](https://doi.org/10.1080/21664250.2025.2469957)
  
- **Input and configuration handling refined**  
  The input interface has been streamlined by supporting standard video formats (e.g., `*.mov`, `*.mp4`) instead of compressed NumPy archives. Spatial referencing is now decoupled from the video and provided via an external `extent.txt` file, while all runtime parameters have been consolidated into a standalone `config.yaml` file, removing hardcoded dependencies.

- **Visualization and reference data support extended**  
  Visualization capabilities have been enhanced with optional satellite image overlays via `basemap.png`. In addition, ground truth inputs now support both raster-based formats (e.g., GeoTIFF) and point-based formats (e.g., `*.csv`, `*.xyz`), enabling more flexible validation and comparison workflows.


### 24 March 2025 – [DfW v1.0]
- Initial release of the DfW algorithm.
